\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename hello.info
@include version.texi
@settitle GCK Hello @value{VERSION}

@c Define a new index for options.
@defcodeindex op
@c Combine everything into one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the
@c concept index).
@syncodeindex op cp
@c %**end of header

@copying
This manual is for GCK Hello (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
which greets you nicely.

Copyright @copyright{} 2025 GCK.

@quotation
Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title GCK Hello
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top GCK Hello

This manual is for GCK Hello (version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}),
which greets you nicely.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::		General purpose and information.
* Sample output::	Sample output from @command{hello}.
* Invoking hello::	How to run @command{hello}.
* Reporting bugs::	Sending bug reports and feature suggestions.
* Concept index::	Index of concepts.
@end menu


@node Overview
@chapter Overview

@cindex greetings
@cindex overview

The GCK @command{hello} program produces a simple, friendly greeting.
It serves as a minimal example of a C program with proper GNU-style
structure and build system.

@cindex example program
@cindex template
This program is designed as a template and example for other projects.
It demonstrates basic C programming practices, proper project structure,
and standard GNU conventions.

@cindex features
GCK Hello has the following features:

@itemize @bullet
@item Simple and friendly greeting
@item Support for command-line arguments
@item Standard GNU-style help and version options
@item Clean, readable C source code
@item Proper project structure with build system
@end itemize

@cindex implementation
GCK Hello is implemented in C and follows standard POSIX conventions.
The program accepts command-line arguments and greets each one individually,
or prints a default greeting if no arguments are provided.

@cindex license
This program is distributed under the BSD 3-Clause License, allowing
free use, modification, and distribution with minimal restrictions.


@node Sample output
@chapter Sample output

@cindex sample output
@cindex examples

Here are some examples of running GCK Hello.

This is the output of the command @samp{hello}:

@example
Hello, World!
@end example

This is the output of the command @samp{hello Alice}:

@example
Hello, Alice!
@end example

This is the output of the command @samp{hello Alice Bob}:

@example
Hello, Alice!
Hello, Bob!
@end example

This is the output of the command @samp{hello --help}:

@example
Usage: hello [OPTION]...
Greets you nicely.

      --help                  display this help and exit
      --version               display version information and exit
@end example


@node Invoking hello
@chapter Invoking @command{hello}

@cindex invoking
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help

The format for running the @command{hello} program is:

@example
hello [@var{option}]... [@var{name}]...
@end example

With no arguments, @command{hello} prints the greeting @samp{Hello, World!}.

If one or more @var{name} arguments are provided, @command{hello} greets
each name individually with @samp{Hello, @var{name}!}.

@command{hello} supports the following options:

@table @option
@item --help
@opindex --help
Print an informative help message on standard output and exit
successfully.

@item --version
@opindex --version
Print the version number and licensing information of Hello on
standard output and then exit successfully.
@end table


@node Reporting bugs
@chapter Reporting bugs

@cindex bug reporting
@cindex problems
@cindex reporting bugs

To report bugs, suggest enhancements or otherwise discuss GCK Hello,
please send electronic mail to the project maintainers.

@cindex checklist for bug reports
For bug reports, please include enough information for the maintainers
to reproduce the problem.  Generally speaking, that means:

@itemize @bullet
@item The version numbers of Hello (which you can find by running
      @w{@samp{hello --version}}) and any other program(s) or
      manual(s) involved.
@item Hardware and operating system names and versions.
@item The contents of any input files necessary to reproduce the bug.
@item The expected behavior and/or output.
@item A description of the problem and samples of any erroneous output.
@item Options you gave to @command{configure} other than specifying
      installation directories.
@item Anything else that you think would be helpful.
@end itemize

When in doubt whether something is needed or not, include it.  It's
better to include too much than to leave out something important.

@cindex patches, contributing
Patches are welcome; if possible, please make them with @samp{@w{diff
-c}} and include @file{ChangeLog} entries.  Please follow the existing
coding style.


@node BSD License
@appendix BSD License

This program is distributed under the BSD 3-Clause License:

@quotation
Copyright (c) 2025, GCK

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
   list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
   contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
   this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY,
OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
@end quotation


@node Concept index
@unnumbered Concept index

@printindex cp

@bye
